By Vladimir  Voevodsky Feb. 2009 - Sep. 2011 .

This is the current version (as of Sep. 2 , 2011) of the mathematical library for the proof assistant Coq based on the univalent semantics for the calculus of inductive constructions. The best way to see in detail what the files in these subdirectories are about is to generate the corresponding tables of content with coqdoc . Here we give a brief outline of the library structure .   

Important : files in the library starting with hProp.v will not compile without a type_in_type patch which turns off the universe consistency checking . This is hopefully a temporary situation which will be corrected when better universe management is implememnted in Coq . One is also advised to use a patch which modifies the rule by which the universe level of inductive definitions is computed . If the later patch is applied correctly then the compilation of the first file uuu.v should produce a message of the form [ paths 0 0 : UUU ] . Without a patch the message will be [ paths 0 0 : Prop ] . 

The library contains subdirectories Generalities/ hlevel1/ hlevel2/ and /Proof_of_Extensionality . 

Directory Generalities/ contains files uuu.v and uu0.v .  The file uuu.v contains some new notations for the constructions defined in Coq.Init library as well as the definition of "dependent sum" [ total2 ] . The file uu0.v contains the bulk of general results and definitions about types which are pertinent to the univalent approach .  In this file we prove main results which apply to all types and which require only one universe level to be proved.  Some of the results in uu0 use the extensionality axiom for functions (introduced in the same file). No other axioms or resizings rules (see below) are used and these files should compile with the standard version of Coq. 

Directory hlevel1/ contains one file hProp.v with results and constructions related to types of h-level 1 i.e. to types which correspond to "propositions" in our formalization. Some of the results here use " resizing rules " and therefore it will currently not compile without a type_in_type patch . Note that we continue to keep track of universe levels in these files "by hand" and use only those "universe re-assigment" or "resizing" rules which are semantically justified.  Some of the results in this file also use the univalence axiom for hProp called [ uahp ] which is equivalent to the axiom asserting that if two propositions are logically equivalent then they are equal .  

Directory hlevel2/ contains files with constructions and results related to types of hlevel 2 i.e. to types corresponding to sets in our formalization . The main file is hSet.v . It contains most general definitions related to sets including the constructions related to set-quotinets of types . The next file in the hierarchy is algebra1.v it contains many definitions and constructions of general abstract algebra culminating at the moment in the construction of localizations for commutative rings . The next file is hnat.v which contains many simple lemmas about arithmetic and inequalities on natural numbers . Then the hierarchy branches into the files stnfsets.v and finitesets.v which introduce constructions related to standard and general finite sets respectively and file hz.v which introduces the first few cosntructions related to the integer arithmetic . The abelian group of integers is defined as the abelian group associated with the abelian monoid [ nat ] using then general constructions in algebra1.v 
At the end of files finitesets.v and hz.v there are some sample computations which show that we use the axioms carefully enough so that the relevant terms of types [ bool ] and [ nat ] evaluate properly.   

Directory Proof_of_Extensionality/ contains the formulation of general Univalence Axiom and a proof that it implies functional extensionality . 


